Halal Chicken and Rice

For the chicken:
2 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp chopped fresh oregano
1/2 tsp ground coriander
3 cloves of garlic, roughly chopped (about 1.5 tbsp)
1/4 cup light olive oil
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper
2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs (about 6-8 thighs)
1 tbsp vegetable or canola oil

Directions: 
1. combine the lemon juice, oregano, coriander, garlic and olive oil in a bleder, blend until smooth. Season the marinade to taste with kosher salt and black pepper. Place the chicken in a 1 gallon ziplock bag and add half of the marinade (reserve the remaining, in fridge). Turn the chicken to coat, seal the bag, and marinate in fridge for at least 1 hour and up to 4 hours, turning occasionally. 
2. remove the chicken from the bag and pat it dry with paper towels. Season with osher salt and pepper (heavy on the pepper). Heat the oil in a skillet over medium-heat until lightly smoking. Add chicken pieces and cook without distrubing until they are lightly browned on the first side (About 4 minutes). Flip chicken and reduce the heat to medium and cook until done (about 6 minutes). Transfer to a cutting board and allow to cool for 5 minutes
3. roughly chop chicken into 1/2 to 1/4 inch chunks. Transfer to a medium bowl and add the remaining marinade and cover loosely with plastic. Refridgerate while you cook the rice and prepare the sauce


For the rice:
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1/2 tsp turmeric
1/4 tsp ground cumin
1.5 cups long-grain or Basmati rice
2.5 cups chicken broth
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

Directions:
1. melt the butter over medium heat in a large dutch oven. Add the turmeric and cumin, cook until fragrant but not browned (about 1 minute). add the rice and stir to coat. Stir frequently until the rice is lightly toasted (about 4 minutes). 
2. Add the chicken browth, season to taste with salt and pepper. raise the heat to high and bring to a boil. Cover, reduce to a simmer, and cook for 15 minutes without disturbing. Remove from heat and allow to rest until the water is completely absorbed and the rice is tender (about 15 minutes)


For the white sauce:
1/2 cup mayo
1/2 cup Greek yogurt
1 tbsp sugar
2 tbsp white vinegar
1 tsp lemon juice
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper

Directions: in a small bowl, combine everything with a whisk.

Toppings:
lettuce
tomato
pita bread


To serve (all together now!)
1. put chicken bowl (marinade, chicken, all the juices) into a skillet. Cook over medium-high heat stirring occasionally until heated through
2. to serve, divide the rice, lettuce, tomatoe, and toasted pita bread evently among four to six plates. pile the chicken on top of the rice. 
3. top with white sauce and hot sauce. serve immediately

