Makes 3 sandwiches, depending on the size of your baguette

For the carrot and radish pickle
1 medium carrot, cut into matchsticks
10 red radishes, sliced thinly
1 tablespoon sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons rice or white wine vinegar

For the vegan meatballs
1 1/2 cups (175 grams) cooked lentils
1 tablespoon oil, plus more for deep frying
1 small onion, diced
2 cloves of garlic, minced
1/2 green pepper, diced
12 button mushrooms, diced
2 tablespoons red wine
3/4 cup (250 grams) breadcrumbs
1/2 cup (65 grams) crushed walnuts
2 teaspoons oregano
1 teaspoons red pepper flakes or chili powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon sweet paprika
1/4 teaspoon fennel seeds
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar

For the sriracha mayonnaise
3 tablespoons aquafaba (the liquid from a can of garbanzo beans)
1 clove of garlic, chopped
1/4 cup vegetable, canola or sunflower oil
1/4 cup olive oil
1 tablespoon sriracha or other hot sauce (start with a little and adjust to taste)

For the vegan meatball banh mi:
1 baguette, cut into sandwich lengths
Sriracha mayonnaise
Soy sauce
1 small cucumber, thinly sliced
A large bunch of cilantro
Vegan meatballs
Carrot and radish pickle

1. Combine all the ingredients for the carrot and radish pickle in a small bowl and set aside for 1 hour, stirring from time to time, while you prepare the meatballs.
2. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a large pan over medium heat. Sautee the onion, garlic and green pepper until soft and translucent. Add the mushrooms and fry until soft and brown. Add in the red wine and simmer for a minute to evaporate the alcohol. While the vegetables are frying, puree the lentils in a food processor and transfer to a large bowl.
3. When the vegetables are soft, transfer to the food processor and pulse a couple of times. Don’t puree them completely, you want to keep a bit of texture. Add the veggies to bowl with the lentils along with the remaining meatball ingredients and mix well.
4. Heat about 5 cm of oil in a small pan over medium-high heat. Use your hands to form the meatballs and fry them 4 or 5 at a time, turning them over to brown on all sides. Remove to a paper towel-lined plate to drain.
5. Make the sriracha mayonnaise by blending the aquafaba and garlic in a tall container with an immersion blender. Mix together the two oils and slowly pour it into the aquafaba, running the blender the whole time until the mayo is thick. Add in sriracha or hot sauce to taste.
6. Assemble the vegan meatball banh mi. If your bread is really thick, you can take out some of the soft centre, leaving the crispy crust. Slather some sriracha mayonnaise on the bread, sprinkle over a bit of soy sauce and fill with the cilantro, cucumber slices, meatballs and carrot and radish pickle.