INGREDIENTS:
MARINADE INGREDIENTS:
1/2 cup hoisin sauce
1/4 cup rice vinegar
2 tablespoons oyster sauce
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon toasted sesame oil
6 cloves garlic, minced
freshly-cracked black pepper

MOO SHU INGREDIENTS:
1 pound boneless pork chops (or boneless skinless chicken breasts), sliced into very thin strips
marinade (see below)
3 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil
2 large eggs, whisked
1 (14-ounce) bag coleslaw
8 ounces shiitake mushrooms, stemmed and thinly-sliced
4 scallions, thinly sliced (green parts only)
for serving: flour tortillas, lettuce cups, rice or quinoa
optional toppings: extra hoisin, extra soy sauce, extra thinly-sliced green onions, toasted sesame seeds

DIRECTIONS:
TO MAKE THE MARINADE:
Whisk all ingredients together in a medium mixing bowl until combined.  Separate the marinade into two portions — one to marinate the meat, and one to serve as the cooking sauce.
TO MAKE THE MOO SHU PORK:
Add the thinly-sliced pork (or chicken) to half of the marinade, and toss until the meat is evenly coated in the marinade.  Set aside for 5 minutes.
While the meat is marinating, heat 2 teaspoons oil in a large saute pan or wok over medium heat.  Add the whisked eggs, and let them sit and until they are cooked and form a large omelet.  Transfer the eggs to a separate cutting board, and set aside.  When you have a chance (while the pork is cooking), chop the omelet into small, thin pieces.
Return the pan to the stove, and increase heat to high heat.  Add 1 more tablespoon of oil, and then use a pair of tongs (or a fork) to lift the meat out of the marinade and transfer it to the pan, discarding the marinade.  Saute the pork, breaking it up and stirring it with your tongs occasionally, until it is cooked and tender, about 3-4 minutes.  Then transfer the pork to a separate plate, and set aside.
Add the remaining oil to the pan, along with the cole slaw, mushrooms, and half of the scallions.  Saute for 2-3 minutes, or until the cabbage begins to wilt and softens.
Add in the reserved marinade for the sauce, and toss to combine.  Cook for an additional 2 minutes.  Stir in the cooked pork and chopped eggs, and toss until combined.  Taste, and season with extra salt and pepper (and/or hoisin or soy sauce) as needed.  Sprinkle with the remaining green onions.
Serve immediately with flour tortillas (or lettuce cups, rice, or quinoa), and garnish with optional toppings if desired.

I just drizzled some extra (warmed) hoisin on top of the skillet before serving, and also drizzled a little extra on the tacos because I’m obsessed with hoisin.  But feel free to just use as little or more as you’d like.