RUB
1/4 Teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/2 Teaspoon ground black pepper
1 Teaspoon smoke paprika
1 Teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 Teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 Teaspoon onion powder
1/2 Teaspoon ground oregano
1/2 Teaspoon cumin
*See note

FISH BURGER:
4-6 oz sea bass filet (or other firm fish)
1/2 – 3/4 cup chopped purple cabbage
1 Tablespoon grapeseed oil (extra virgin olive oil will also work)
2 Teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 cup arugula
1 brioche bun (or any other type of hamburger bun you have)
*see note

SIRACHA MAYO
3 Tablespoons mayo
1/2 Tablespoon sriracha
*see note

DIRECTIONS:
Preheat oven to 450 – ensure rack is in the middle of the oven.
Mix Rub ingredients.
Take your sea bass and pat dry with a paper towel; leave the skin on.
Sprinkle a generous amount (about a teaspoon or two) of the rub on the top of the filet (you will not use the whole thing – simply save the remainder for another use).
Add purple cabbage to a small mixing bowl and add your grapeseed oil and kosher salt.
Mix well.
Mix your Sriracha Mayo ingredients together, experimenting (if you want) until you get your perfect flavor and spiciness.
You are going to bake your fish for 4-6 minutes per 1/2 inch thickness and the cabbage requires about 4-6 minutes as well, so if you have a small fish, put the cabbage in right away. If your fish is thicker, then wait until there is 4-6 minutes left and then add purple cabbage.
Place fish, skin-side down, on a foil-lined baking sheet; ensure it is off to one side as you will be placing the cabbage on the same sheet either immediately or after a few minutes.
Butter your brioche bun and carefully place on the bottom oven rack, butter side down, for approximately 2-3 minutes.
Remove salmon, cabbage and bun from the oven.
Take bottom of the bun and spread as much sriracha mayo as you desire.
Add purple cabbage.
Take spatula and lift the fish fillet off of its skin, which should simply stick to the foil, and place on top of the cabbage.
Add arugula on top and top with bun.
Serve immediately.

*Note: This rub can easily be substituted for a simple Creole seasoning or other pre-packaged blackened seasoning.
*Note: While this recipe features sea bass (because it is very firm and holds up well as a “burger,” feel free to try the fish of your choosing.
*Note – if you are nervous about the mayo being too spicy, start with a Teaspoon of siracha and then mix and taste. Continually add additional siracha as desired. Similarly, if you want it even spicier, continue to add siracha by 1 teaspoon increments until you reach your desired flavor.

NUTRITION INFORMATION Yield: 1 , Serving Size: 1
Amount Per Serving:  Calories: 890 Calories Total Fat: 59g Cholesterol: 120.2mg Carbohydrates: 54.8g Fiber: 4.3g Sugar: 10.8g Protein: 36.2g