Ingredients
2.5 cups water
1 medium potato , peeled and cubed
1/3 cup carrots , chopped
4 cloves garlic , chopped, or use 1 teaspoon garlic powder)
3 tablespoons onion , chopped, or use ½ teaspoon onion powder
1/2 small green chile (optional)
1 small tomato , chopped
1/4 cup raw cashews , or macadamias (or 1/4 cup pepitas to make nut-free)
2.5 cups broccoli , chopped
3/4 teaspoon prepared mustard
2 teaspoons soy sauce , or tamari (or coconut aminos to make soy-free)
4 tablespoons nutritional yeast
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil , omit to make oil-free
3/4 teaspoon salt , or more to taste
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/2 teaspoon sriracha sauce (optional)
1/4 teaspoon white pepper
1.5 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper , or to taste, divided
10 - 12 ounces cooked elbow pasta , gluten-free if necessary

Instructions

1. In a medium skillet over medium-high heat, combine the water, potato, carrots, garlic,
onion, chile (if using), tomato, and cashews. Cover the skillet and cook 18 to 20 minutes, or
until the potato is very tender. Let the mixture cool slightly.
2. Meanwhile, bring a medium saucepan of water to a boil over high heat. Add the broccoli
and cook for 2 minutes. Drain the broccoli and set aside. Then cook the macaroni as per the
instructions on the packaging. Usually it's for around 8 - 10 minutes. Alternatively, you can
add the broccoli to the cooking pasta pot in the last two minutes.
3. Combine the potato mixture (along with its liquid), mustard, soy sauce, nutritional yeast,
lemon juice, oil, paprika, and sriracha (if using) in a blender. Blend for 1 minute, let the
mixture rest for 1 minute, and blend again until smooth.
4. Transfer the mixture to the saucepan over medium heat. Add the salt, white pepper, and ½
teaspoon of the black pepper, stirring to combine. Add some additional water to adjust the
consistency if the sauce is too thick.
5. Bring the sauce almost to a boil. Taste and adjust the seasonings. Add the elbow pasta and
broccoli. Stir to combine, cover the saucepan, and cook for 3 minutes. Let the mixture sit for
2 minutes. Add the remaining 1 teaspoon black pepper. Sprinkle some more pepper on each
serving, if desired.
